---
layout: post
title: "Run Hide Activate"
date: 2023-12-4
excerpt: "Active Shooter Random Distraction System"
tags: [Distraction, Raspberry Pi]
comments: false
---

# RHA System

Click [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-PkryLHeFyuD3ueepHlTen7bXUpKw_Qe/view) for the poster.

I want to introduce "Active Shooter Random Distraction System called Run Hide Activate." With the increasing threat of active shooter incidents, my project aims to provide a crucial line of defense and create a safer environment for educational institutions and public spaces.

So, Run Hide Activate is a comprehensive system designed to distract active shooters, creating precious time for students to hide and for law enforcement to arrive, ultimately minimizing damages. In typical active shooting incidents, the most critical moments occur within 5 to 10 minutes, leaving little time for police intervention. Also, usually active shooters are untrained, and vulnerable to distraction. Our system seeks to address this urgency and provide a crucial line of defense.

At the heart of "Run Hide Activate" is the Raspberry Pi 4 server, which hosts a website with a database. This server collects essential data from other devices and updates the possible location of the shooter and the escape routes away from the threat.

Activation of the system is straightforward—hold the GPIO0 button on the ESP8266 fob for 5 seconds or press the mobile app button three times. To prevent accidental activation, the system requires confirmation twice and resets if the button is not pressed consecutively.

Efficient face detection is a critical component of the system. With a Pi Zero W and a Pi Camera, I used background subtraction techniques to optimize face detection. I navigate the trade-off between accuracy and performance using switching Haar-cascade and contour detection methods based on the shooter's distance.

Now, for the dynamic distraction system, the boxes are equipped with various tools—confetti cannons, powder cannons, marble droppers, speakers, and laser diodes. These tools operate randomly, creating unpredictability to maximize distraction. Activity logs, including deployment details and intruder images, are sent to the server for updates.

I plan to expand the system with multiple distraction boxes and additional tools. Path tracking with recognition and an auto-activation and auto-deactivation system are also on the horizon.

To summarize, "Run Hide Activate" is not just a project; it's a proactive response to a critical issue. This system enhances the emergency response systems and creates a safer Cornell. Thank you.

